---
layout: post
title:  "Getting Back on the Horse"
author: Shari
categories: [ Parenting ]
image: assets/images/pexels-photo-1125774.jpeg
image_caption: Photo by Johannes Plenio from [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com/photo/silhouette-of-person-riding-a-horse-1125774/)
comments: false
---
Truth be told, I did not ride a horse for the first time until I was fifty-three (if the feeble Barney even counts as a horse). All worst-case scenarios scared me too much. How embarrassed would I be if I couldn’t keep the horse on its designated trail? What if the horse got spooked and threw me off? Would I get the independent-minded horse who was in the mood for a joy ride? With so many possible things that could go wrong, I avoided the experience all together.

Now at fifty-six, I find myself at a 2023 crossroads that feels an awful lot like pushing myself to get on a horse. Only this time, my hesitancy involves a blank canvas or even worse for a writer, an empty page. It’s a version of writer’s block that has inhibited me from writing my own story and I know I have plenty of company in this predicament. Not just other writers, but anyone who has ever had to take care of a sick loved one.  It’s an all-consuming task that can strip a person of so many different things – including their own identity. 

Watching my daughter lose her quality of life at the age of twenty-six is an experience that I am slowly starting to recover from. Spending months witnessing her in a debilitating state without knowing the cause was horrifying. I would find her passed out all over the house during the day, while sleep would elude her at night. Thankfully, she was able to use her insomnia as an opportunity to scour the Internet, leading to her best guess that she was suffering from a form of chronic fatigue syndrome brought on by a candida yeast overgrowth. A specialist in New York City confirmed her diagnosis and began administering treatments that are now leading to a slow, but full recovery. 

After almost three decades of being a mom, I took pride in my role as the superhero who could be there for my children no matter what the circumstances. Of course, I discovered my limitations long ago, but I never expected to feel completely helpless. There was absolutely nothing I could do to make my daughter feel better, so my daily life became fixated on the things that I could do. I spent most of my time running errands, cooking meals and shuttling her to doctors’ appointments while losing sight of the fact that I wasn’t doing anything for myself. I didn’t even want to tell my closest friends what I was living through as if not talking about it made it less painful. My coping mechanism became walking through life without giving in to my frustrations or fears. My daughter and I were both in survival mode, even though she was the one fighting the illness.

Thankfully, my experience does not compare to anyone who has had to watch a loved one slowly slip away from Alzheimer’s, cancer, or any disease that ultimately robs a person of their life and dignity. The scars left from those battles rarely fade, but eventually every caretaker will emerge from a journey that is highly personal. They will have faced an experience that came without a handbook or roadmap and found their way to an ending that comes attached to a new normal. 

After taking care of someone with an illness, life can never return to being exactly what it was. The loss of consistently being needed often leaves a person with an emptiness that becomes difficult to fill. A sense of quiet replacing a constant state of worry might feel more unsettling than comforting. Even putting yourself first for the first time in ages could create an irrational sense that you are doing something wrong. In many cases it takes time to find a way to reset and catch up to a world that has now moved on without you. 

As the new year begins, I’m so grateful to be able to tell my caretaker story in the past tense with my daughter’s recovery now in progress.  Not everyone gets so lucky and yet I know I am in plenty of company when it comes to struggling to fill in my next steps. There are moments when I almost feel like the little girl who was leery of mounting the unpredictable horse. As I compare those fears to emerging from this experience, I am struck by the similarities. I successfully navigated my way through being derailed from what I thought was my designated trail, I survived getting spooked by an illness that felt at times like it was taking me down, and now I have been gifted the independence to take my own joy ride into the future.  Apparently, I really am ready to get back on that horse and embrace the journey forward.